and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show delighted to be joined by
mano
giragosen today mano is the founder over
at giragosa meda
he's also the host of the perspective
podcast where he interviews young and
successful
entrepreneurs multi-million dollar
business owners
and best-selling authors mano a warm
welcome to the show how's it going mate
thanks for having me it's going great
hope you are doing good too
good yeah well good on this emmanuel i'm
looking forward to getting stuck into
today's episode which i think i believe
is going to be huge value not only to me
but everyone tuning in this fine day
as we're going to be talking all about
how we can produce content
that not we love our buyers love so our
ideal customers
the people that come to us with these
juicy projects
that ultimately can grow our business
grow our revenue
and um sustain our companies so i'd like
to
to jump right in um with a bit of a
controversial topic manu why
why should we be creating content for
our buyers
rather than just creating content that
perhaps we like or that we think is good
as a starting point yep so you know many
people like
start producing content to get attention
like
uh and when you do that like immediately
maybe uh subconsciously like we start
focusing on what we like
to hear for example about ourselves for
example if we enjoy people saying
something specific about us we start
talking about that topic
and those stuff you know and that's
where the problem happens most of the
time because
people are not willing for example uh
to hear your personal stories and those
topics if it doesn't provide them with
value
so that's why like the key is to to
focus on what the audience is willing to
hear from you
you can still tell your stories you can
still talk about different topics that
you enjoy
but uh we need to do it in a way that it
provides value to people so they listen
to it they learn something from it
so actually i have been doing this as
well when i started producing content
for example
i was being selfish i was just for
example
sharing uh my thoughts about a specific
topic
just so people know that i think in that
way about that topic and
that wasn't working no one was engaging
with that content because
they are not interested like in my own
thoughts but when i started to shift my
perspective around that
i'm still talking about my thoughts
about any specific topics but
i'm doing it in a way that they
understand why i think about this
in this way or what value it provides to
them
so they would be interested to hear me
they would be interested to read my
content
because now they are learning something
from it they are understanding that it
might change their business
or something else so like for me
i don't look to content in the level of
just getting likes and comments because
i'm not doing it for that you know and i
even say about myself that i think
if uh my business wasn't online maybe
i was i wasn't going to have a social
media accounts as well
because i don't share anything personal
on social media maybe
only 20 of my posts are personal and i
use it mainly
for business and people always get
surprised you know they ask me like
how much time do you spend on social
media and i actually tracked that
and my screen time daily was 30 minutes
except the time i spent on linkedin and
other media social media platforms for
business
so i don't use it for my personal like
needs that's why i think like
uh i i didn't have like i had that
problem but i solved it quickly when i
shifted my perspective
around content just to provide value to
the audience instead of
sharing what for example i enjoy myself
yeah yeah it makes sense and on that
note for anyone that's perhaps
not yet harnessing the power of content
to
drive inbound leads inbound
opportunities and ultimately revenue
why is it important manu that we don't
gear it around
perhaps our own opinions and i like the
reference you gave to being selfish with
with your content why is it important we
really harness on how we can be a useful
resource
to our ideal customers yeah
so i think inbound is becoming more
important day by day because
the outbound methods already got too
crowded and you know even the space
itself like
for example talking about me and you
you provide website services
for websites i provide services for
facebook advertising and other
than us like maybe thousands of other
people are already doing the same
so you need to stand out somehow and all
those people are reaching out to people
cold calling them or cold messaging and
emailing them
and i'm not against that i do that as
well sometimes
but i mean it's not as effective as
before because it got too crowded
so that's why i think producing content
is important because
before having that conversation with
someone they will already understand
that you are knowledgeable about
something it builds trust between you
and your potential customers
so when you reach out to them or even
they reach out to you
it there would be some trust between
each of you like
because you uh they are not hearing from
you the first time they already saw that
you are knowledgeable about certain
things
they already maybe they even saw that
from your content for example i
sometimes i lose some customers from my
content because they notice that
the way i think is not uh it doesn't fit
with the way that they think and they
don't reach out to me you know so it
filters your customers as well
so the right type of people will be
attracted to you
yeah yeah yeah it's a great point um
and i i love the point you may raised
about standing out really
because i guess it's a chance to show
your expertise
in terms of the the sector that you
really know about
share some useful resources share some
useful tips and and really help people
like you say to understand that you do
know what you're talking about
that you are going to be a useful
resource but at the same time
a little in a little bit of sense to to
let your personality shine through and
like say
it it could filter out uh customers that
perhaps may not be the best fit for you
which is a good thing really because
it's going to save you time if they book
a call
and you perhaps spend 30 minutes an hour
or several conversations back and forth
then it's it's going to save you time in
the long run so that's
certainly not always a bad thing so
in terms of the have you got any i mean
this could be a whole episode in itself
manu so i don't want to spend too much
time on this but in terms of the actual
channels
we put out our content on ie whether
that's going to be facebook whether
that's
linkedin whether that's youtube whether
that's instagram or now clubhouse that's
just been out
should we be trying to use them all or
have you got a strategy that you
implement to really
nail down the ones we should focus on
and
and make sure we're actually reaching
out to the customers that could
potentially do this business with us
yeah so you know i'm not against like
some people prefer to use all the
channels and some people prefer to use a
specific channel i'm not against both
because there's no right answer to this
like it depends on you and what you like
to do but for me
i prefer to take the 20 80 rule
which is spent 80 percent of your time
on the platforms that are generating the
most results for you which is for me
linkedin
and 20 of your time on other platforms
so you can grow your channel there and
diversify
so if one of the one day for example
linkedin disappears or
clubhouse or anything else disappear you
will have an alternative to it you are
already
you already have an experience in the
other channels and grow it
so you can uh like focus on that shift
you're focused so for me i like linkedin
because it has a very high organic reach
and the quality of people on linkedin is
so high like
the community is really great and the
other platform which i like a lot is
youtube
because yeah like it keeps driving
traffic to you for years because it's a
search engine
so actually the that's why i like
youtube and i started recently like to
focus more on it because
like if you put an evergreen piece of
content there you will keep getting
traffic
to it for years and years and
organically without spending anything
uh of course if your content is good
enough so
i think if you don't have too much
resources i prefer to use the 80 20
rule to focus on the platforms that
working for you and
also one other point is important so if
you don't have a big budget
is that you need to focus on the
platforms with high organic reach
for now for example it's linkedin and
tick tock those are the two platforms
that have the highest organic reach
and if you are willing to spend some
money on your content as well you might
also like
pay attention to other platforms such as
facebook which is my favorite and
google ads and those other platforms as
well gotcha
no that makes sense i mean ultimately
you've just like you've said you've got
a
got a there's a bit of testing involved
i suppose at the start
um to actually see what works see what
what yields traction what you use
engagement um but as as with many of
these platforms as i've certainly found
out it's it's not often
a real quick result is it especially
bearing in mind as we've been touching
on
you need to build trust over time with
the content you put out
and over over a period of time whether
that's several weeks with that several
months and eventually that's when
the opportunities will arise which we'll
jump into how we can actually leverage
those in a sec
um but manny interested to know if
you've got
a framework or a structure or process
that you put into place when it comes to
actually creating the content
that's going to be of use of value of
interest of entertainment
to the people you want to be doing
business with and i think this could be
especially
useful for both myself and i'm sure
people tuning in that may think oh i'm
not really sure if i can share anything
in my industry because
it's it's so it's so limited to xyz or
how can we if we think we're in a really
niche industry that there's not perhaps
much use to share how can we come up
with some really spicy content tips
and kind of fill our calendar with ideas
each and every day to
ultimately bring in the inbound leads
yeah so
one of the frameworks that i like to use
is to divide your content into three
parts
so it starts with content that brings
awareness to your brand
and then with content that uh builds
your credibility in the market
and proves your expertise and then the
content that converts your audience to
uh customers so i like to divide my
content into three parts and this is so
important so you can
judge the performance of the content
fairly like if you for example if you're
objective from some posts are doing
sales
you can't judge them by the number of
likes you are getting because
your main goal is getting sales it's not
getting likes and if your main objective
is getting likes you have to focus
on getting likes not doing the sales
because that's why you are producing
content
so i divide my content into these three
types
when it comes to content that brings
awareness i focus on
reaching as many people as possible to
bring more awareness to my brand so
this is where the content needs to be
educational and
entertaining at the same time back to
the point you mentioned like
some industries like people say that
it's a little bit boring and there's
nothing to talk about like accountants
for example
but at the same time you see like too
many people for example on linkedin i
see some people
producing like talking about their
personal stories
for example one of the things i like to
do is to start
with a struggling moment that you went
through
then you talk about it and then you talk
about how your expertise for example if
you are an accountant
have your expertise in accounting helped
you to overcome that challenge
and this will be like inspirational and
motivational content
as well to attract people to you then
with the second type of content which is
content that builds your credibility and
it's most of the time how-to content
where you provide tips for example about
accounting and how to do this how to do
that how to pay your taxes
now this will help those people that you
attracted in the first
stage to trust you to start building a
relationship with you
and in the last stage you will be
already producing content about your
packages and what you sell
so they start buying from you that is an
awesome framework
so so we're talking about raising
awareness
where you can perhaps weave in stories
of how you've overcome struggles we're
talking about building credibility
by showing perhaps how to's whether
that's tips or videos i guess
i guess that can be split right money
maybe perhaps some video content perhaps
some
text-based content and whatever's
working well on the channels of course
linkedin tends to be text only with the
best reach organically at the moment
anyway
um and then actually pushing people to
to to get in touch or to purchase
depending on
whatever your your cause for for
generating leads or generating revenue
is
is there the third point in terms of
actually
or firstly rather is there a kind of
balancing act that we need to maintain
i.e we do
x amount of awareness posts x amount of
credibility posts and then we can push
to drive revenue is there
a split that we should bear in mind so
i like to use there's the one four one
one uh
formula which is like if you are doing
six posts weekly
four of them should be like only
educational uh pieces of content
and one of them should be with a light
uh light
let's say promotional piece and the uh
the other one should be like hard
selling which
which would be like uh four one one if
you are doing six posts weekly
i like to use this you know because you
won't be like so spammy and promo it's
not spammy but you won't be so
promotional because let's say you have
like 20 30 000 followers
i mean they would be like they can't buy
something new every day from you they
would get bored it would be nice they
wouldn't
yeah definitely but but it won't happen
so yeah that's why i like to use the
four one one method
i think it's a great balance yeah yeah
yeah it's a nice split
and is there is there something or a
specific strategy that's worked for
yourself when it comes to
finally um asking for whether that's
people to book a call or book a
consultation or
purchase a book whatever you're trying
to do is there a strategy you've got for
doing that or is it simply
buy my stuff um you know
for me like when it comes to the inbound
methods i just produce the content
and uh like you know i'm not i'm not
i'm not the sales guy i'm not so good at
sales and i i
i know that so uh like i i wait like
until the leads come to me and ask for
my services
until i pitch them that and i think
that's wrong you know
because doing that you won't be able to
convert too many people sometimes you
have to be a little bit salesy
but you know based on my personality i'm
not that guy so
that's why i always say that once i
expand more
the first thing that i'm going to do is
to hire a sales person because i'm not
the sales guy
so i think like for me i wait someone to
reach out to me until i pitch them my
services and if i'm going to get in
touch with someone
yeah i use the normal outbound methods
that i contact someone and ask them
for example i do some research about
them and see if they really need my
services and then i get in touch with
them because you know if you just reach
out to people randomly
you will have like high rate of
rejections
there so that's why i do some researches
and see like if they really need and i
reach out to them saying that i noticed
that you have
this and this for example i can help you
with that and
if they really need it like i already
get a discovery call with them
and pitch them my services gotcha
gotcha so yeah i mean that's that's a
good point and i guess everyone's
different really on how they want to
approach their
content strategy their marketing
strategy their sales outreach
do you think that's the the way to go
that we should just be consistently
perhaps following this framework man
building awareness building credibility
making sure we're putting a lot of those
useful resourceful content and pieces
that are going to be a value of interest
of entertainment to our
ideal clients and then wait for them to
come to us or is there ever a time
where we can actually think oh this
person's engaging
with me a lot or they're commenting onto
my stuff a lot or they're doing xyz
quite a lot
i think i should probably pop them a
message or is there a
time where the timing's right that we
actually need to
do a bit more of an outbound approach
and start leveraging the content that
we're using
yeah i think i think that's correct you
know the way you mentioned it
is much better than what i do for myself
but i do it because it works for me you
know but
for some other people it might not work
so i really like agree with you
so if you see for example someone is
continuously
engaging with your content and asking
questions for example i receive too many
dms from people
just asking for a question i think it
would be a good idea to try
for example not pitching them but for
example when you answer their questions
you can
just lightly ask them if you would like
for example
more information or you would like to
work with me more a little bit
we can for example offer you these
services that services
that might fit for you and if they don't
want it i mean there's no problem but
at least you try it so you convert more
people because
one of the things sometimes i feel like
i'm cheating myself is that
i noticed that at the end of the month i
answered maybe hundreds of questions
and i didn't make any money from it i'm
again here to provide value and help
people but at the end of the day
that's how i make my living so i have to
get paid for that
um this is a bit of a spanner in the
works so
let's perhaps look at linkedin and
perhaps look at youtubers those are
two of the the main channels i believe
you focus on right now manny
um are there ways in which that we
should utilize call to actions in your
opinion
because i've spoken to a lot of people
and some like to
perhaps put at the end of their content
whether that's a video like you can
message me to learn more
some perhaps put in the end of that
linkedin post message me or dm me to
learn more or there's a link to this
guide
or there's a link to my courses in the
comments is there an etiquette
you think is the most effective way to
do it or does it completely depend on
your personality and what you feel
comfortable with
yeah i think it depends on your
personality for it but
call to actions are definitely so
important because like
people like to receive guidance for
example
if they are watching your video they
don't know what they have to do next
that's why
they scroll and continue scrolling so
that you need to tell them something
so i think the most important thing is
to make it relevant to the piece of
content for example if your
content is about facebook ads you can't
add a call to action for example buy my
real estate course because it's totally
different thing and i i saw this before
like people are talking completely about
something
different and then their call to action
is again completely about
uh something different so it needs to be
relevant to your content
and the other thing is that don't ask
too much from for example
uh like i see some call to actions that
ask
uh for example like this post comment on
it and share it then
subscribe to my newsletter and buy my
course like people get confused
do it all at the same time by
subscribing
i mean you have to ask about something
specific
yeah and depending on the stage of your
funnel that your audience are
is in for example we talked about the
three stages
if you are producing content just to
get more awareness your call to action
needs to be comment
so you increase your reach your call to
action doesn't need to be by my course
because
you are not doing it to do more sales
but if you are doing it for the last
stage of your funnel which is converting
your audience your call to action needs
to be like buy my course and those stuff
yeah yeah and again manu this this is
just coming to my head but again this
could be a probably a whole nother
episode
but as you mentioned linkedin right now
it's
it's really great it's how we get a big
chunk of our business alongside seo
and alongside paid media and a couple
other channels we do to get inbound
opportunities for ourselves and our
clients
um yeah linkedin is killing it in terms
of organic reach still and there's still
so
many so many ways that you can connect
with buyers that you can produce content
like we've been talking about
and get those inbound opportunities and
outbound too um
but it is rented land isn't it so
at any given time linkedin can
essentially do what they want hopefully
they don't
because it'll certainly piss myself you
you off and i'm sure a
whole bunch of everyone tuning in off um
but they can they've got the ability to
suddenly kill the organic reach
um kill the video reach and completely
change the system if they wanted to
um are there any ways you recommend that
we
without spreading ourselves too thin and
i think you touched on it a little bit
now with mentioning things like email
newsletter but are there
other systems that have perhaps worked
for yourself so we can make sure if it
does go down
we don't perhaps lose all of our
following and all of our potential leads
for the next year or so
yeah so i think one of the way like the
the concept behind it
no matter what ways do you use but the
concept behind it is to turn the traffic
you get from those channels into traffic
you own
so people are doing it in different ways
some people for example
build their email lists to take the
emails of those people and reach out to
them whenever they want
and some other people for example take
phone numbers
they build their whatsapp community for
example or
i don't know they build communities on
text platforms and those stuff
and the third way is to build your own
platform i see this a lot again but
you know i think this is a little bit
more advanced for people who have very
big audiences
is to build your own platform where
people will subscribe to your content
and consume it there i think those are
the three ways that i like
but for people who don't have very big
audiences the best way i think for them
is to build their email list
i just started started doing this
recently but i have been doing this for
a long time for my clients that i worked
with
so i think it's one of the best ways to
do it because
i mean that would be like traffic you
own you can contact them whenever you
want
yeah i i guess it's getting that balance
isn't it of having the
the resources that you you own but at
the same time taking advantage of these
rented platforms whether that's linkedin
whether that's another social site
and harnessing them but at the same time
trying to get get those customers over
onto platforms you own so you can make
the best of both worlds really
yes that's supported as well because
like without those platforms
you wouldn't get the traffic so you need
to be there as well
and you need to be more active on social
media than the other
uh channels but you need to because
in the traffic at the same time you need
to provide as much value as you can so
people
see that you worth it for example you
deserve that
they give you their email or their
attention because you know now it's too
crowded like
uh i mean maybe if you listen to our
podcast
uh this episode now the same thing that
we are discussing maybe hundreds of
other people
are discussing it as well so you need to
really like stand out some
somehow and provide additional value to
people yeah
and on that note so we've we've covered
a framework that people can put into
play
to start creating content for their
buyers as we said most markets
are flooded for example we're in web
digital marketing you're in the social
and facebook ads arena
um but there's there's a heck of a lot
of people doing the same stuff the idea
the same stuff that you do
are there any other ways as well as
following the framework that you've
shared any
perhaps lesser known techniques or
techniques you share with your clients
or that you'd utilize yourself
that can just help us create content
that breaks through the noise
rather than just saying the same stuff
that everyone else has repeated or
should we
should we be doing that should we be
doing similar stuff and putting our own
spin on it is there
any perhaps more unusual techniques manu
that you've
you've struck gold with or you've found
successful
you know currently like even for my
content the only thing that i'm focusing
on
is to stand out somehow you know that's
so important like
uh so if everyone is doing something
specific i'm trying to do something
different and
you know i was happy last time that i
saw some people mentioning
uh me for this like i saw that i noticed
on linkedin everyone is talking about
for example
like you should do seo you should do web
design you should do this and that but
very few people are talking about how to
do it
so i started producing content like
only about how to do those stuff how to
get things done
and uh i think that's one of the ways to
stand out now
so the main concept behind it again is
to stand out that's why
what we are focusing on no matter like
who we work with or what they are doing
cool um well that's pretty much all on
my end are there any final parting tips
manu
that you'd like to share with people on
any perhaps final notes on how we can
just ensure that our strategy that our
content is
is going to be in tune with with our
ideal buyers anything we've perhaps not
touched on yet
um yeah i think it's it's the same thing
like tie your content to a specific
objective that you are working towards
so you can judge the performance fairly
and then based on that like don't over
judge your content just produce content
and put it out then
it's important to analyze you know so
you see what's working and what's not
and based on that you can adjust because
if you don't put it out you won't know
like if it's working or not for example
even for me
like the posts that i think wouldn't do
well when i publish them it does
better than the other posts yeah and i
think
i remember i did that once i um i put
out this digital marketing joke i think
it was something to do like
i think i just reworked some jokes i
found ages ago like a guy walks an seo
specialist walks into a bar
pub tavern place to drink watering holes
something like that
and then just went out and then come
back to my computer and i had nearly a
thousand
likes and comments i was like why why
people like this like this
this just something i took a second on
and then other times i'll spend like
20 minutes crafting this post i think is
awesome that shares all these useful
tips and then
it might have got five likes a couple
comments but ultimately
it doesn't matter as we've been covering
because if it resonates with with our
ideal customers and it's giving them
something useful or has helped them to
trust us then
that's that's what really matters right
yeah 100
cool dude look manny really enjoy um
really enjoyed the conversation
thanks very much for coming on and
sharing your wisdom on all things
content
and with that please do tell us more
about how everyone can
learn from you how they can connect with
you and the best way to get in touch
yep so i'm mostly active on linkedin you
can
connect with me on linkedin and if you
have any questions about content or
facebook ads or social media i can reach
out to me there as well
so i also if you would like to listen to
more resources i have my podcast which
is called the perspective podcast you
can
subscribe there and listen uh for some
interviews with marketing experts and
i'm
going to interview some i think next
week
uh on the podcast yeah and it was
pleasure to be with you
cheers dude and we'll put all of those
links over at the website
business growth dot marketing and i want
to thank you once again manu cheers for
coming on the show
thank you cheers dude and if you enjoyed
the show be sure to hit subscribe for
business growth show wherever the heck
you get your podcast we interview
business leaders
each and every week to provide actual
tips across marketing across sales
all with the view to grow your business
and revenue and with that we should
catch you
on the next episode